(upbeat music)
Now that you understand
how to save and protect your money,
let's discuss how to make your money, work for you.
In terms of the what, why, and how,
of part three of this course,
I'll kick it off with the what.
We'll cover what to invest your money in,
including stocks, bonds, real estate, commodities,
and, other investment classes.
We will also focused on how to diversify your portfolio,
and how to pay the lowest fees, when you invest.
Why?
Why should we discuss diversification, and low fees,
in this part of this course?
Because, if we don't diversify our investments,
then, we could end up making less money,
and, potentially, losing a lot of money,
if we don't spread our investments around.
Also, if we are not aware of the rip-off fees,
that many investment firms charge us,
then, our net worth, will be way, way, way, way lower,
in the future.
Small fees, can really hurt us, in the long run.
Just like, what we covered in exercise one, of this course.
The time value of money, and compounding interest,
are really powerful wealth-generation concepts.
And, very small fees, can really stop our chances,
of maximizing our very long-term net worth.
Lastly, how?
How are we gonna cover all of this,
make-money material, in this part of the course?
Well, similar to parts one and two, of the course,
there will be many, many exercises for you to complete,
during part three, of the course.
So that you feel way more confident,
on how to invest your money, for the long run,
in stocks, bonds, commodities, real estate,
and other investment types,
while ensuring, that you are not getting ripped off,
on really high fees.
And, also, so that you are very well-diversified,
with a bulletproof, long-term investment portfolio.
And so, I'm gonna teach you about investments,
in a radically different and new way,
in this part of the course.
I'm gonna use a lot of exhibits,
tangible exhibits, or props,
so, we can understand why things are the way they are,
in the world of finance.
And, I want to do this the fun way,
so, we can understand terminology,
instead of memorizing buzz words.
For example, here is a ticker tape,
from many, many years ago.
And, there's probably only one ticker
I recognize on here, maybe two.
There's RCA, which, of course, is the ticker for RCA.
And, then there's DAL, which I think is Delta Airlines.
And, back then, they use one-eighths,
instead of the decimal system.
I'll explain more of this later.
So, stocks all have a ticker, and, years ago,
if you wanted to see what a stock was trading at,
you actually had to look at this ticker tape,
which came out of a ticker machine,
that made a tick-tick-tick noise (laughing),
as it printed the tickers, hence, the name, ticker.
Also, when we study bonds,
I'm gonna use many different exhibits, like this one here,
from a couple of decades ago,
when Disney was expanding into Europe.
You see the coupons, on these bonds?
I'm gonna explain what each of these coupons means, later,
and, it's absolutely fascinating.
And, I personally, really think
that, if we understand why, why, why,
with everything ya learn,
then we're gonna retain information,
and, it's more interesting and fun this way too.
And, you know, the same thing goes
with, anything you learn about, like cars.
I was explaining to my kids, why is it called,
and, they ask great questions, why is it called a trunk?
Because, people used to put an actual trunk,
on the back of their cars, like this here.
And then, why is it called a glove compartment?
Because, people used to drive with gloves on,
and then, they'd put the gloves back
in that little compartment there.
Also, why does a car say the door is ajar,
when, I always thought it was a door?
Okay, I'm really sorry about that last one.
No more dad humor, this time I promise. (laughing)
Okay, sorry.
But, by explaining bonds and investments,
using actual exhibits, like these ones here.
See this, coupons?
And, I've got international ones, as well.
So, Euro Disney was in France.
I got one, I just got from,
actually, this one just came from Latvia, of all places.
It's a Russian bond, kinda neat, hey?
So, we'll do international stuff, as well.
And so, if we do this,
you can actually retain a lot more information,
if you analyze, why things are the way they are.
Don't worry, I'm not gonna make this a history lesson.
I'm gonna make, interesting.
And, so, if we research why, finance and accounting,
and money management, works the way it works,
then, again, we're gonna retain more,
which, will enhance your ability
to be more successful, with your finances.
Okay, and so, as a quick side note,
always question everything you see, okay?
Just like, when you were a child.
My son, Dylan asked, he's my youngest one,
he asks so many questions,
and, I learn because of their many, and curious, questions.
And, Dylan asked me, why the barber shop has this logo here.
And, I had to look it up,
but, one of the reasons is, because, in ancient times,
in the 1500s in Europe, that's ancient, I guess,
people used to go to the barber to get surgery done.
And, after the barbers, who were doctors then,
would finish surgery, they would wrap their towels
on a pole, and they'd wrap around,
I guess they were blue and white towels,
after they cleaned up.
Okay, anyway, moving on.
Small investments, if you start early,
can be worth a fortune, later in life.
And, very small changes in how you invest,
like, paying lower fees,
can lead to massive returns on your investments,
in the long run.
And, we really need to act small,
so we can think big, in the long run.
Okay, so...
In my hand here, I'm holding a mustard seed.
This is a pack of mustard seeds, of course.
But, let me see, if I can get one out here, oops.
That's a bunch of them.
I'm dropping some, 'cause I am a klutz.
So, here are mustard seeds,
I don't know if you can see that?
Chris, maybe you want to zoom into that,
when you're editing.
And so, one mustard seed,
lemme just get rid of the rest of these. (chuckling)
One mustard seed, is right here, in my hand.
It might be very hard to see.
And, when I started filming this course,
I planted a few of these mustard seeds.
I wanna show you how the progress,
of the growth, of these investment seeds are.
Okay, so, I planted a couple of seeds,
and, let me just get some help here,
from people that work for me.
Hold on one second.
Okay, so, come here, black-shirt Chris,
and, show us all, you planting the few seeds,
at the start of the course.
Okay, see how small the seeds are, in black-shirt's hand?
Black-shirt Chris' (laughing) hand here?
Okay, Chris, plant them now, please, black-shirt Chris.
Okay, go, go, thank you.
We get it, we get it.
Okay, go home, it's over, Chris. (laughing)
Then, here is the progress, of the same plants,
when I started recording part one, of three, of the course.
I mean, the save money, part of the course.
And, so, blue-shirt Chris, come here, come here.
Okay, I want you to hold the plant higher, okay?
No, idiot, lower. (laughing)
You can't good help these days.
Okay, a bit higher.
Okay, okay, good, get out.
Okay, great.
And then, in part two of the course,
during the protect money part, of the course,
here's what the plant looked like.
Okay, pink-shirt Chris, come here, come here.
Okay, turn around.
Turn around, so the students can see you, please.
Okay, he's not the smartest guy.
Okay, look into the camera.
Okay, out, out!
See how the small investment, is growing very fast?
And, lastly, Matthew, here's my middle child.
Matthew, honey, please come here.
And, show me what this plant looks like now.
Okay, great, great.
Now the plant looks amazing, hey?
So, Matthew and I, are making a free course,
which will be out in the next year,
on, all about business for kids,
how, playing Clash of Clans, can teach you about business.
It'll be fun.
Okay, so look how big the mustard plant is, right now.
Okay, great.
Thanks, Matthew, I love you.
So, someone is sitting in the shade today,
because they planted a tree, many years ago.
And, of course, that's a Buffet quote.
Great, so why do look at how much a mustard seed can grow?
I wanted to do that, because I wanted to really reinforce
this fact, that, small changes can lead to massive,
long-term growth investment breakthroughs, in life.
And, I have to quote my hero.
The Kingdom of Heaven, is like a grain of mustard seed,
which, a man took, and sowed in the field,
which, indeed, is smaller than all seeds.
But, when it is grown, it is greater than the herbs,
and, becomes a tree, so that birds of the air,
can come and lodge in its branches.
So, we're gonna have a lot of fun,
with this, in this section.
And so, why am I talking about mustard seeds, this much?
I just want you to remember, please,
how much, fees, small fees,
can destroy us, in the long run.
Okay?
And, I want us to remember, how very small...
amounts of money, that people take from us, can kill us,
in the long run, investment-wise.
And so, we're very long-term greedy, in this course.
And, so in the next exercise, what we're going to do, is,
we'll see exactly, what small fees,
they seem small,
can do to our net worth, in the long run,
and, why it's absolutely crucial, that we avoid them.
And, I'll show you how.
Thanks.